---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-12T01:47:03.887Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-12T01:46:52.872Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-12-e3ab3ba4-c8ab-4992-895a-00afaeeb7b7b.md
published: true
url: e3ab3ba4-c8ab-4992-895a-00afaeeb7b7b/index.html
_type: Article

---
**For Two Very Important Reasons:**  
1\. You, and  
2\. Your Loved Ones

**Why You?**

Because life can be unpredictable. You may not always be able to act for yourself.  

You
may become ill and unable to manage your assets or make health care 
decisions. You want to maintain control over your life as best you can. 

Proper planning will allow others to assist you as you age or deal with unexpected health issues. 

In
short, maintaining a quality of life is important to you. There are 
steps you can take to protect your assets and preserve your personal 
values.

**Why Your Loved Ones?**

Because your loved ones depend on you now. Through proper planning, you can still be of help to them after you die. 

Preserving
assets for your family will help them. Having a solid estate plan in 
place that deals with your assets at your death will reduce the stress 
for your loved ones at a very difficult time, when they are trying to 
cope with your loss. 

A proper 
estate plan will reduce expenses and taxes at your death, leaving more 
assets for your family, resources that you have worked hard to build all
your life. 

Estate planning is not inexpensive. Living and dying without an estate plan is far more expensive.

is a worthwhile investment.

****

**What If You Don't Plan?**

If you don't have an estate plan that 
satisfies the requirements of the law, the State has one for you. 
Individuals dying without a Will or other estate planning instruments 
may find that the legislature has decided who will inherit your assets 
when you die, who should make decisions for you during your life when 
you are not able to do so or who will be the guardian of your children. 
Seldom does the State's plan align with the choice an individual would 
make for him or herself. You have a choice. Will you make it?

****

**Do You Have An "Estate?"**

Some people think that they do not have 
an "estate," that estate planning is only for the wealthy or that it is 
too expensive. The fact is you don't have to have millions, or even 
hundreds of thousands, of dollars to benefit from estate planning. 
Almost everyone has personal property and a bank account. Many are 
fortunate to have a home, a retirement plan, a car or maybe own some 
stock. All of this is part of your "estate." "Estate planning" includes 
nominating a guardian for children should both parents die before the 
children reach adulthood or designating someone who will make financial 
or health care decisions for you when you are not able to do so. The 
laws are complex and it takes training and experience to know how to 
guide individuals and families through the estate planning process. This
training is ongoing in order to stay up to date on changes in the laws 
and it costs money. So naturally it can seem expensive to have a proper 
estate plan drawn up for you by a qualified estate planner. However, 
more often than not, it is far more expensive not to have an estate plan
drawn up for you by a qualified estate planner.